Welcome to Cinema Summary, ladies and
gentlemen grab your holy water, your
pistol and whatever other monster
slaying goodness you've got because
we're going monster hunting with the
Allen family. Based off of the comic
series of the same name, the October
Faction TV show takes a lot of
liberties with the source material to add
in elements that were not present in
the original comic book which I will be
referencing some times throughout this
video and word of warning
spoilers ahead and with that said
this is October Faction Season 1 explained
so the October Faction is all about the Allen
family returning to Barrington, New York
after Samuel Allen, the patriarch of the
family dies under mysterious
circumstances: Fred, Dolores, Vivian, and
Geoff Allen move into the estate into a
quiet little town that Vivian and Jeff just
don't fit into which isn't helped by the
fact that Vivian is a socially awkward
and solitary artist and Jeff is a
fun-loving homosexual who's 'kind' isn't
too welcome in Barrington but we quite
quickly learned that things are not as
they seem as Vivian has a vision of some
very strange and bizarre events though
after Vivian tries to do a seance to try
and connect to the spirit of her dead
grandpa she instead connects to a woman
who she sees chained beneath the water in
a vision and accidentally frees her
as I'll cover further on the kids have these
special powers of theirs that they're
learning to understand Vivian in
particular is a clairvoyant: able to draw
the future whereas Geoff is able to gain
information in form of telepathy or
psychometry. These power themselves bear
resemblance to the original powers of
the children in the comic books, Vivian
was able to see the fates of those she
sees around her and gain post cognitive
information although with a bit more
pyrokinesis and Jeff is able to see
ghosts much like in the series and gain
information about people through similar
powers and is able to electrocute people
which the comic book version of Geoff can
do albeit with magical blasts of energy
and having a few more powers in his
arsenal like teleportation, interdimensional
travel,  and the binding of spirits
Now the source of their powers is never
elaborated on in the comic books
although it is explained at least for
Geoff as being a magical skill and
perhaps due to their heritage whereas
the TV show it's pretty explicitly
explained as an innate ability that Geoff
and Vivian have due to their biological
heritage as they are adopted being the
biological children of Alice Harlow
both in the comics and in the TV show. Mind
you this plot twist of them being adopted
is kind of predictable once you learned
that Deloris herself was not able to
bear children due to injuries sustained
now something that's very similar to the
comic books is that the children react
pretty badly after finding out that
their adopted I'll be it under different
circumstances with both materials but
something that was different was that in
the show the kids don't know at first
that they have powers whereas in the
comics they know from the start and are
eager to become Monster Hunters much
like their parents. Now the Allan estate has
its own share of secrets: strange claw marks on
a wall, Fred's dead brother and photos around the house,
the cache of high-tech, high-powered weaponry and
and who could forget the juiciest secret of all
belonging to Fred and Dolores: the boring parents
Jeff and Vivian being actual professional
monster hunters working for
a global monster hunting organization
known as Presidio which is run by this
woman named Edith now really quickly the
original source material does have the
parents being monster hunters albeit
retirees who go back into the business
after basically being thrusted back into
the world of monster hunting from then
on we have this mix-up of family drama,
high school sucking a lot, monster
hunting, and a conspiracy. You see after
Fred and Vivian kill a vampire at a
Barrington supermarket the mysterious
murder becomes a crime of interest to
the local sheriff Gina--an old friend Delores at the same
time the mysterious woman from Vivian's vision
who says she hails from Harlow or something
uses her magic powers to break
into a Presidio safehouse to track and
hunt down the Allen's! Now weirdness is
normal for Fred and Deloris but Vivian
and Geoff are taken aback by their
experiences with the unnatural: Geoff
having some form of post cognition and
able to divine information about the
past which he uses to humiliate
his teacher and Vivian as we saw earlier
has visions of something and who
ultimately prophetically draws an
incident that happens earlier in the day
wherein a red truck stalled in the road
stopping a school bus which led to the
Harlow the witch finding them and inspecting
them where she then realizes that
Vivian is the one who called and
released her though by the second
episode we learn that Samuel Allen
isn't dead and is in fact alive and
being interrogated by Presidio for some
reason that I will elaborate on a bit
later then by the third and fourth
episode we get introduced to Jeff's
ghost seeing and talking ability, we
learn that someone or something has
been killing the local vampire bikers as
well as there being a mysterious cyborg
with a red laser eye who follows Vivian of
all people, then later we learn that
Edith is involved in some sort of
secret conspiracy that's concerned
greatly with Sam Allen and a magic circle
thing inscribed in the floor of Seth's
room and we also see Harlow going to the
Allen estate to reclaim an urn full of
ashes and to the shock of Jeff and
Vivian who learn that their parents
are monste hunters so by now we have
several mysteries set up: Who is this
Harlow witch woman and what does she
want? Why did Presidio kidnap Sam
and what are they after?
What is going on the kids?
what is with the summoning circle Fred found?
Who and what is this
guy with the red eye?
And most importantly who are the kids really?
and what is with the mysterious
urn that was hidden in the Allen estate?
all these questions and their
answers are all connected together
tied up in a nice neat bow by the
season's finale by the time the final
episode rolls around this spooky witch
who's been showing up all over the damn
place, putting her nose in everyone's
business, actually has a name Alice
Harlow of the Warlock colony known as
the Harlow village or the Harlow house
this character is loosely adapted from the
comic book although her comic book
counterpart is featured in like a single
panel wielding an axe before getting
killed off by Fred and something I
should also add is that Harlow village
doesn't exist in the comics and instead
it's the Harlow's house belonging to a
serial killer couple who are implied to
be working with monsters anyway she, as
the rest of the Allens discover, is a
warlock which in this universe is a race
of people: innate magical practitioners
who although look human
are monsters. She in particular is noted
to using blood magic and much like the
rest of her kind is able to form a
psychic bond of sorts with the universe
and with everything within it this
metaphysical bond is something that
Vivian tapped into when she did her
seance and inadvertently used to free
her from her bonds and this underwater
bondage thing being a result of a band
of rebel monsters she joined, tying her
up, and sort of drowning her in a lake
because she was just too much for them
to handle. Now, fun fact the word 'warlock'
comes from an old English word meaning
"oathbreaker" what exactly this oath is I'm
not a cunning linguist so I can't say
but it's a very appropriate descriptor
for Alice as it's due to her breaking
several oaths that lead up to the life
that she lives it now: she betrays the
Harlow village by inviting a human into
the premises which directly leads to the
extermination of her people and the
destruction of Harlow house. She becomes
too 'killy' and revenge happy that she gets
betrayed by her monster comrades who
chain her up and then later she
promises to be there for her children
but fails to protect them from Presidio
Mucho depresso. Now adding on to that
the reason why she's sniffing around the
Allens so much is because they were
directly involved with the Harlow
village massacre, with Delores and Fred
having served as boots on the ground
soldiers in a very grisly raid
furthermore Sam Allen was the guy who
oversaw the operation go down and who
stole an urn full of the ashes of the
warlocks which Alice then took back in
order to take a blood bath like
literally it's super gross-- to rejuvenate
and restore her power and as I mentioned
earlier we also discover that she is the
mother of Vivian and Geoff. So now we need
to talk about the urn and later the
pentagram thing in Seth's room so first
off the urn that is previously mentioned
contains ashes specifically of the
warlocks of the Harlow village. We see
them actually doing a ritual which turns
this old guy into the dust which are then
stored in the urn. This ritual was done in
order to allow the soul to move on at
least in warlockian beliefs
now warlocks use the ashes of the Dead
in order to empower themselves which
leads to Alice's big pro-gamer move
later in the series when she brings back
these souls of the Harlow warlocks back
to earth and into the bodies of Barrington's
populace which brings us to the
pentagram thing in Seth's room which is
linked to Presidio, Sam's fake death, the
red-eye guy and surprisingly the Harlow
warlocks: you see the pentagram thing
in Seth's room is a form of
warlock geometric magic
more specifically soul magic that Sam
used to bind the soul of his son Seth to
a body of a convict in order to
bring him back to life
not to brag what I totally called it but
anyway. Now because I read the comic book
series this character, the red eye guy,
does exist in the comics though he's
portrayed as being more mechanical and
is not Seth instead he's a young man
named Dante who was the subject of a
cruel experiment by a mad scientist who
was sort of rescued by Fred before being
placed into a box and left to sleep as
he was too dangerous in Fred's words
then later on the comic Dolores wakes
him up as a ploy to get Fred back into
the monster hunting business because her
life without it is just really boring
anyway the experiment for Sam is a
success though Seth becomes a mute and
furthermore is locked inside the house
by Sam, now the problem is Seth is
resurrected using decommissioned
Presidio technology and Presidio really
wants their stuff back so they kidnap
Sam, fake his death, and interrogate him
in order to learn how he used their
technology so that they can use it to
exterminate all monsters, oh, and although
I didn't list it as a question earlier
but in the TV show we encounter a mixed
race team of monsters who are hunting
Alice Harlow, this team however not
having existed in the comics instead the
closest thing we get to a mixed race
team of monsters is in Deadly Season
wherein Fred is kidnapped by the
children of the monsters that he killed in
the past who try to kill him in the  present
so this plot was kicked off because
Sam just wanted his son back but
something I didn't mention is how Seth
died. For a long time Fred was second
best to Seth who was the golden child
for the Allen family and one day the
brothers went out hunting but Seth got
ambushed and murdered to death by a
monster named Moshe who did so out of
revenge for his own family who were
brutally killed by Seth a long time ago
in a lot of ways this story's about the
cyclical nature of revenge and killing
that is bound to bring people to blows
which is very much a theme in the comics
as one of the motivating factors for the
plot there is Fred's history of monster
hunting and some characters usually
monsters wanting some revenge against
him now finally we move on to the
timeline so overall the timeline of the
series go something like this October
1975. Fred witnesses Seth attack a
monster that's inside their home when
he's a child and gets inspired to
become a monster hunter
1987 an older Fred and Dolores go out to hunt
a monster that killed Deloris's father
October 1988 in New York
Fred and Seth are out hunting in
a bar where Seth is killed by
Moshe, a monster's family Seth killed some
time earlier then October 2001 Alice is
residing in Harlow house or as I call it
the Harlow village which leads to the
mass purge of the warlocks by Presidio
and it's here where Fred kills Omari
Alice's husband and takes her kids and
when Sam takes the urn full of the ashes
back to his estate then comes October
2018 Sam conducts a ritual to bring back
Seth back to life using warlock magic
and succeeds in a manner of speaking
then in 2019 in Osaka the Allen family
get the call that Sam dies and the family
moves to New York which is when the
series begins but how does it end?
Well, Fred is dead and is currently stuck in
a limbo dimension with Omari, Alice's
husband whom Fred killed, his soul
separated from his body, Philip and Geoff
are dating much like the comic book
Vivian is happier with her life in Barrington
Alice is still out there somewhere
being hunted by Moshe of the monster squad
Sam and Seth are still alive albeit
locked up in Presidio which is now under
the new leadership of Maggie, Fred's a
mother, though the finale hints at season 2
which involves some sort of monster
hidden beneath the basement of the Allen
estate breaking out and it does not
sound friendly and that'a season 1 of
October Faction it amalgamates or
removes characters adds more backstory
or world building to what was an
otherwise self-contained and focused
setting and I honestly was really hoping
we'd see Lucas and how he deals with
lycanthropy or Merle Cope and his
general dickish attitude towards the
Allens. The plot line for season one is
clearly separated from the main canon of
the comics and it's anybody's guess what
they're going to change in season 2
- although I'm thinking they're going to
go a bit more into limbo and Fred's
chance to come back to reality and if not
that then obviously the monster
hunting business that they have in the
comics with that being said thank you so
much for watching ladies and gentlemen
if you enjoyed the video leave a like
down below and subscribe to get updated
on my latest uploads and leave your
comments down below telling me what you
think of this adaptation, what might come
up in season 2 and what you liked and
disliked about this adaptation and stay
tuned for part 2 until next time